In the morning, you go into the bathroom.
If it's bright yellow,
you can't help but smile.
The day simply becomes better.
It's a wonderful example
of 1960s design.
Nordic design has conquered the world
for over a hundred years.
I fell in love right away.
All rooms with this become: Wow!
I can't take furniture to heaven.
But what exactly makes Nordic design
enchant collectors from around the world?
What makes wooden sofas and plastic chairs
sell for fantasy sums internationally?
From unpretentious everyday objects to
immortal pop culture icons–
–seen both on film and in the world's
most exclusive homes.
This is a series about a hundred years
of Nordic design–
–and why it looks the way it does.
In a 1960s house on the outskirts
of the Belgian city of Hasselt–
–lives fashion photographer and design
enthusiast Kenneth Ramaekers.
He is obsessed with 1960s design,
and his life has been transformed–
–by the long-dead Danish designer
Verner Panton.
I started collecting vintage design
25 years ago–
–when I finished school
and got my first salary.
The more I collected, the more focus
became on Verner Panton's works.
Verner Panton is a symbol
of the 1960s aesthetic.
He is known for his futuristic design
influenced by pop culture.
And some call the entire 1960s
the Panton era.
I never thought I would start collecting
Panton. I just bought things.
Suddenly I had 10, 15, 20. "Where will I put it?
I'll buy it anyway."
Suddenly it starts looking like a collection
and I had to realize that I was a collector.
It's not that I like Verner Panton's works.
Verner Panton's works like me.
It's an attraction I can't explain.
It's something physical.
They are different and fascinating.
The colors are exciting
and make me happy.
When I wake up in the morning
and see all the colorful things–
–I can't help but smile.
In this episode, we will see
the Nordic designers transform–
–our way of living, socializing,
and even thinking.
What makes Jackie Kennedy love
Finnish A-line dresses?
How did Björn Weckström's jewelry
end up on Princess Leia in Star Wars?
And why does the Swedish fashion
designer Carin Rodebjer–
–use patterns from the 1960s
in her latest collections?
I have always had a fascination
and passion for the 1960s.
For how people thought back then.
The magical year 2000 is approaching.
How will we live? What will we do?
Ignition sequence initiated. 5...
Maybe we'll go out into space
and live on the moon.
This is one small step for man...
During that time, much new came
within pop culture.
People experimented with form,
material, color, and much else.
And I have always liked that.
Plastic was an experimental material
and cheap.
But above all, they could make
completely new forms with it.
In the North in the early 1960s,
a new world is being built.
Society's wheels are spinning at high speed
and a major industry is the textile industry–
–producing innovative, colorful,
and radical patterns.
And the Nordic fabrics
will soon become a world success.
The era's biggest it-girl,
Jackie Kennedy–
–buys seven pieces of the Finnish brand
Marimekko.
And when she appears on a magazine cover
in a Marimekko dress–
–right in the middle of the presidential
campaign–
–a success story is created
that is still talked about today.
Jackie saw them–
–and thought it was a good idea with
these Finnish cotton dresses.
She had been publicly criticized
for wearing only French luxury fashion.
This became the starting shot for an incredible
success story for Marimekko in the USA.
Kennedy, who was pregnant, liked
the comfortable, colorful dresses.
This is the young Finnish designer
Vuokko Nurmesniemi who created them.
These dresses are cut
in the simplest possible way.
The dresses' patterns and colors
had the most important role.
Typical for Vuokko
was loose-fitting clothing–
–which Jackie probably liked
since she was pregnant and her belly was growing.
She wore the dresses
throughout her pregnancy, for nine months.
What was Vuokko's philosophy
in design was...
...to free women from tight corsets
and other uncomfortable garments.
Next success for Marimekko
becomes the iconic pattern Unikko–
–created by designer Maija Isola.
Maija Isola was truly an artist.
I see her more as an artist
than as a print designer.
Unikko has an interesting history.
Marimekko's founder Armi Ratia did not want
any flowers in the collection–
–because she thought
they were most beautiful in nature.
But Maija Isola disagreed.
So she created a whole series
of floral prints that she showed to Armi.
And the rest is actually history.
When talking about Unikko
and saying that it is a flower–
–you miss the most unique about it.
Unikko is namely both
an abstraction and a flower.
This makes Unikko a unique print.
It is more the idea of a flower
than a flower.
Maija Isola was a world citizen
and inspired by traveling.
She traveled in Africa and Europe.
Her inspiration came from nature.
She created fantastic abstract images
of movement in nature–
–like a bird in flight
or the wind seen through the window.
And she was inspired so clearly
by the materials and things in nature.
Maija Isola was a modern woman–
–who wanted to create works that freed us
and let us live our lives.
Another designer who thought that
design could change how we socialize–
–was Danish Nanna Ditzel.
Already in 1952, she and her husband
Jørgen designed–
–a furniture series that was innovative,
playful, and revolutionary.
See what it represents? Never.
It is part of the future home–
–at least according to the architect couple
Nanna and Jørgen Ditzel.
You mean that people will move around
in the room–
–in order to be able to have
interesting conversations?
I mean that if you sit,
relax, and have a good time–
–you can have pleasant
and interesting conversations.
The environment is not a hindrance.
Do we not live under
the architects' tyranny?
No one feels tyrannized.
It was exciting, because we got to meet
so many interesting people.
It was Verner Panton
and Poul Henningsen.
You have thoughts you never had before.
An artistic experience is not pleasant.
It can almost hurt.
They exchanged ideas and inspired
each other. They wanted something, those people.
They wanted to be part of shaping the future.
They had ideas about how it would be.
Partly regarding materials,
lamps, furniture, and textiles–
–but also about how we humans
should live together.
Their first work was a staircase.
They did not use just square meters,
but also cubic meters in a house.
The idea was
that if you break conventions–
–you get a different way to socialize
and a different type of conversation.
She meant that you think better
if you lie down, so she always did that.
One of Nanna Ditzel's most iconic
pieces of furniture is the hanging egg chair–
–which creates a feeling
of floating freely in space.
The hanging egg chair
is made by both my parents.
They experimented with the room–
–and tried to utilize the room's
three dimensions.
Then they came up with the idea that furniture
could also float in the air.
And I got to sit as the first model
in the chair. I was nine years old then.
Many pictures have been taken of it–
–and a classic picture is one
where you can only see Nanna's legs.
In the early 1960s, she gets the task
of making furniture for children–
–and she starts from
how children move themselves.
This is groundbreaking in a time
when children should behave like small adults.
She thought that children don't sit still,
but they stand up and knock things over.
So it shouldn't be small adult furniture–
–but something interesting for children
that they can play with.
So Nanna made
a large and a small stool plus a table.
That is how Trisse was born.
Parallel to her furniture design, she creates
jewelry for Georg Jensen–
–in a style that is
elegant, organic, and playful.
The jewelry makes her name spread
across the entire earth.
Altogether, Nanna Ditzel shaped
Danish design for more than five decades.
We are actually so fortunate
that Nanna has written about her process.
She writes:
"The creative work is demanding."
"You cannot go on routine and do something
that has been done, said, or already happened."
"You should be critical of the ideas
you want to bring out."
"I want design ideas
that can give a better life."
"A life that is so beautiful, exciting,
and content-rich–"
–"experience-rich and innovative."
At this time in Copenhagen,
Nanna's friend Verner Panton–
–also had ideas that broke
against the environment's conventions.
He had a dream of a chair that was
cast in one piece, in plastic.
But to turn dream into reality
would become a real trial by fire.
You said that I should not take your Living Tower
seriously. Do you take yourselves seriously?
I take it seriously in the sense
that I believe–
–that what one should really criticize
is experimentation and some novelties.
That is much more important
than polite indifference.
My father was loving
and protective–
–and made sure I felt loved.
As a person, he was discreet, but
as a designer, he was passionate–
–and had a unique ability
to play with color and form.
Our home was his experiment workshop.
So when he got an idea,
the furniture was often rearranged.
Only when I brought friends home–
–did I realize that our home was different
and very colorful.
Verner Panton had gone to school
with the legend Arne Jacobsen–
–and hung out with Poul Henningsen.
If it is not fine to be natural,
then I do not want to be fine.
But even though he was inspired by them–
–he wanted to do everything
in his own rebellious way.
Dad told that the whole thing started at a factory–
–when he saw them making plastic buckets.
Efficiently and in large volumes.
He thought that so should one
be able to do with furniture.
He began sketching his idea,
and around 1958 he made–
–the first Panton Chair in full size.
But no one showed
any interest.
But a meeting with a young Swiss man
would change his life.
Rolf Fehlbaum was in his 20s–
–and on the way into
his father's design company Vitra.
He came to Basel on his father's invitation.
I got to come along and met Verner.
He was a rebel, and I liked that.
He was plastic, when Denmark was wood.
He was strong colors, when typical
Danish was beautiful, discreet colors.
I thought it was exciting.
It was typical 1960s.
Everything would change.
Everything would be new.
So I was interested,
and we became good friends.
Dad was a busy man–
–so the chair disappeared
from consciousness for a while.
What made it impossible
for Panton to produce his chair–
–was that a special machine was needed
that was expensive to manufacture.
But since Vitra had made Eames chairs
in fiberglass, the technology was there.
And eventually they said yes.
Then it started.
Something from a rebellious time fits
perhaps best in another rebellious time.
And I believe that the Panton Chair
still has the energy–
–from its first daring idea.
To make a chair in one piece of plastic
is still a fantastic idea.
And I believe that people still see that.
It keeps a chair or an object alive.
For it represents still
the idea of doing something completely different.
We go east to another epoch-
defining designer: Yrjö Kukkapuro.
At the same time, he also experimented
with new materials–
–and completely own ingenious functions.
The original chair had a ball bearing.
In that chair sat little Isa, that is, I.
I gave it speed and shouted:
"It's like a carousel!"
So the chair got the name Carousel.
So it has been called since 1965.
Yrjö Kukkapuro is a kind of legend.
He shaped his own life and thereby
also the lives of all his loved ones.
Yrjö has gained fame
as an original furniture designer.
If you described your own design,
what terms would you use?
Aesthetics. The aesthetic is extremely important.
In the design process, aesthetics
often becomes more important than function.
But to achieve
an aesthetically high-quality product–
–is perhaps the hardest
with design.
My parents wanted to build
their own studio.
Then my grandfather said:
"There is a piece of land here, build here."
That is the universe
we find ourselves in today.
Yrjö Kukkapuro had
a deep interest in ergonomics–
–and experimented like an inventor
to get the perfect sitting curve.
He bought a flexible metal mesh
that he shaped after his body.
Then he poured plaster over the chicken wire.
He used sculptor's tools
when creating the Carousel chair.
It must have felt overwhelming
for him–
–to see the finished three-dimensional
form of his inner eye.
Today, one can easily create similar things
with the help of a 3D printer–
–but Yrjö succeeded in creating
his own 3D experience.
In Finland, they dared to bet
on plastic furniture.
There was a need for daring.
Finland had a strong need
to wash itself a bit–
–after the Second World War
and its dependence on Germany.
6330a47-6738-4fa7-8422-e8caf07f3c60
And now they came up with–
–that architecture and design were
a language they could spread in the world.
Not least via
the new, daring Finnish design.
6530dc23-5b23-4f07-ad65-768b3c16867
Such as Marimekko, Kukkapuro
or understandably Aalto spread in the world.
It also had to do with
the Finnish state realizing–
bd8a2b94-8840-486a-b808-237b5b9186a
–that this was a very good point
for launching Finland.
And from Finland come even more
futuristic innovations.
Ball Chair was something completely new–
–a armchair that was not just
a piece of furniture, but an experience–
–a cocoon where one could shut out
the world and step into a bubble.
And the idea was born
in a completely unexpected way.
The idea for the Thunderball came from the Åbo shipyard,
where I had been many times.
There they built boats from fiberglass.
I became fascinated with that material
and wanted to use it in some products.
Here is the original Thunderball–
–from January 11, 1963.
It already looks like the original drawing.
In the beginning, the idea was a kind of cube.
But that just looked dumb
with legs on a cube.
I dropped that
and got the idea of a ball.
It should be big enough
to accommodate one person.
The next step for me was
to get a telephone in the chair.
I called LM Ericsson
and told them about my chair–
01fbe449-1502-4b6d-8c15-54b00b898c9
–and asked if I could buy a red
telephone that often sat on the kitchen wall.
"That goes well, and it costs nothing."
You put your finger in a dial
and spin to the numbers. Fantastic!
It still works.
It is the world's first ball chair,
and now it spins the world over.
Such chairs have been sold to 30 countries.
Here I have a list.
These people have bought the Thunderball:
David Frost, Grace of Monaco,
Frank Sinatra, Sammy Davis Jr.–
Jacques Cousteau, President Kekkonen
and the Shah of Iran.
They could afford it!
They were really not poor.
But there was a practical problem
with the Ballchair.
It was enormously cumbersome
to transport.
So Eero Aarnio got the idea
to create a small chair–
–that would fit inside the Ballchair.
The chair Pastill became also
a design success and is sold still today.
So here it is, and it fits in the thunderball.
For the same postage. And it is padded.
There was no risk for damage to the chair.
New York Times had a crossword–
–where the name Eero was requested with
the key "knew the furniture designer Aarnio".
Not bad!
With the advent of plastic in the Space Age
opens enormous possibilities.
3ac6b3da-508c-4b9e-9e0-7276cf1ebb79
In Finland, they begin to cast
entire houses in plastic.
This becomes the culmination of the futuristic
trend within plastic architecture.
Here we talk about the plastic era–
–an era that we have lived in for a long time
and will live in for a long time to come.
Plastic is after all a substitute material.
It has replaced old, fine materials
and invaded almost all domains.
Futurohouse is launched in Finland 1968–
–and begins to be mass-produced
in several European countries.
The house is mobile, and the idea is that
it can be moved wherever–
–and anchored in the ground
at its new location.
The form of a flying saucer is seen
as both practical and super modern.
And the trend would spread.
It is a bathroom from 1969.
It comes from the Feierbach house
that was made entirely in plastic.
Orange and yellow are perfect, I think–
–and it was used a lot in the 1960s.
And when people see it,
they can't help but smile.
"What the heck is this?
An orange-yellow plastic bathroom?"
But it wasn't just the colors,
but also the forms that appealed to me.
A wonderful example of 1960s design.
In the late 1960s, experiments reach
even higher up in society.
f54dda46-335f-408b-9d3d-460de9449f
1969 lets Verner Panton
design his headquarters for Der Spiegel–
–Germany's most influential magazine.
He creates a total environment
with lounges, editorial rooms, dining room–
–and even a swimming pool
in psychedelic colors and forms.
The interior is meant to affect the employees
and free their creativity.
Perhaps design now
affected the entire society.
I usually say that all–
–whether they are visual artists
or designers want to be understood.
When it comes to product development
that I am working on–
–one must acknowledge
that we are influenced by fashion.
d17f6064-b1d0-470b-9456-d4dda9e3e37
But one cannot just follow fashion.
One must create the development.
One may get to it
once or twice in life–
–and I have gotten to it once,
with a chair.
Design and architecture
arise not in a fashion vacuum.
Trinelise Dysthe was in the 1960s
an interior architect–
–and worked together
with her husband Sven Ivar Dysthe–
–who stands behind several of the space era's
most prominent design classics.
Here he sat for good–
09223e8f-a371-4d3e-a7d9-e318e2c1df9
–after we got married
and should make our life together.
Look, here lies a sketch for Planet–
–which he called "Play with circles".
Space design. Round forms.
He was with the times.
This is Sven's drawing table,
and here he sat year after year.
Hour after hour,
completely absorbed in what he was doing.
Therefore, I have left it as it was,
to remind me–
–of how it was, and of how Sven's
incredible career began.
He came up and said that he sat
down there and thought about everything new–
–on the moon landing and on our earth
swirling as a ball out in the dark.
He sat and sketched "Play with circles"
and saw that it had become a chair.
32e653b4-cf8d-4c42-8208-517c5ac6272
This is one small step for man
but a giant leap for mankind.
This is such a good example
of how currents in time–
–affect the form expression–
–and remain
as a symbol of that time.
Space design, pop design.
This was part of the untested
and dramatic 1960s.
George Lucas' secretary
called me from London.
She said that George Lucas
was filming a science fiction film–
–and would need jewelry
for the final scene.
"Will seven weeks be enough for you
to make these jewels?"
I said that it is quite sufficient.
Then she called after a week and said–
–that George Lucas had decided
to film the scene in a week.
"Can you get something done in that time?"
"Absolutely impossible."
But luckily Björn Weckström had just made
a jewelry collection–
–inspired by space, "Space Silver Collection"
which came in 1969.
And it was available to buy in London.
Then I got a telex strip:
a47bd36e-ec6d-4cf7-adeb-48b71242bc
"George Lucas has found
fantastic jewelry"–
–"and he is very pleased
and grateful, and says so much."
I forgot the whole thing, because I didn't
know who George Lucas was.
ef01c215-5792-4838-b4c3-7ad58b9b1af
Then a friend called and said I
must go and see this Star Wars.
"Incredible! In the final scene is
your jewelry. Absolutely fantastic!"
Princess Leia wearing the jewel was
a dazzling revelation in the scene.
That I was of course
extremely pleased and happy about.
Space Silver Collection I made
in the late 1960s.
I was inspired by snowdrifts
I saw outside my studio window.
Moreover, I use a surface
that was matte–
–and that reminded of snow crystals.
That was something completely new.
My thought was to
lift the jewel's level–
–to the same level as modern sculpture–
–and depart from the two-dimensional
form language in the jewel–
–and add three-dimensionality to it.
Lift it up actually,
to the same level as modern sculpture.
Princess Leia's jewel is a form
that repeats around the jewel.
Much is the Finnish winter
haunting in this collection.
The jewelry industry and goldsmith
industry was a conservative industry.
Luckily I could introduce–
–this new form language
and the new thinking in the 1960s.
And it was accepted because fashion
changed, everything changed.
So even a conservative industry
could accept a new thinking.
The 1960s innovative form thinking
continues and takes more expressions.
1969 begins Verner Panton
to create furniture of a kind–
–that no human being
has ever beheld.
When I saw it for the first time I actually
lost my breath. I fell in love right away.
For me, it is Panton's greatest work.
I saw Living Tower as a child.
It was probably in some TV series or something.
I was already fascinated by the form,
that one could sit four people in it.
I never thought I would own one.
I would meet a collector
who sold all sorts of things.
I was actually there
to buy something else.
But then I saw that there stood
a Living Tower further back.
"Can you consider selling it?"
"It had not been my intention, but everything
is for sale, so it can be discussed."
After some discussion
I got to buy it.
It was a puzzle piece that fit in.
I bought it for 9,000 euros and had
luck, because it is worth much more now.
I have read about his life
and the works he created–
–but he is still
a mysterious figure to me.
In the late 1960s, disruptive social changes
are underway.
It is a time when everything is reevaluated and
a new generation is on the barricades.
The textile industry is under change,
and designers come together.
One of the companies that wants to unite
ideology with design is Mahjong.
Here they are photographed
by the artist Carl Johan De Geer–
–and a model is his then-wife,
the artist Marie Louise De Geer.
Together they are
one of the era's hottest couples.
I myself always thought
that everything should be patterned.
I made a proposal for
Sergels Square where the houses were patterned.
Carl Johan De Geer
was a textile artist–
–who wanted to work with color and form
to create a better world.
It should bathe the whole mind
in positivism.
We believed that patterns and colors
could create a new world without wars.
That was of course a misconception,
because we did not succeed with that.
And I did not get through with my idea that
everyone should have patterns on the walls.
It became never realized,
other than at home with myself.
Carl Johan De Geer created the pattern
"Rendez Vous" in the mid-1960s.
What he did not know then was that it
60 years later would be picked up–
–by one of Sweden's foremost
fashion designers and get a new life.
I found it...
I research all the time.
I have always liked
Carl Johan's creation–
–but just this pattern
became I so enormously in love with.
It is frenzy and richness of ideas,
at the same time as it is elegant.
I became so in love with the visual
and the craftsmanship.
I think it is
an outstanding print.
Partly I am very inspired
by that time when it was created–
–and a certain maximalism...
For today we have a minimalist
trend, especially in Sweden.
The stands for something fine and has
a fine energy that I wanted to bring in–
–but clearly wanted to be a bit
strict in the implementation of the garments.
I like to add humor,
energy and a certain positivism–
–into my creation.
And this I think has
a joyful flow.
When Carin wants patterns
I could become revenged–
–and get paid for what I did not
get paid for 50 years earlier.
I think myself that it is
very cool and I am happy.
Therefore we can stand here, because I
have paid the rent with your help.
It is so finely repeated,
so it is simple to work with.
It moves so finely
and has such a fine melody in it–
–so it was just
to ride with the pattern.
It is not only Carin Rodebjer
who notices Carl Johan De Geer.
On spring 2025 releases
the Swedish clothing brand Dedicated–
–an entire collection
of the pattern Phoenix Bird–
–that Carl Johan De Geer made
for KF 1972.
The first years of the 1970s occurs
an oil crisis that shakes the entire North.
The economy is on the way down
after some years of good times–
–and the downturn seems to affect
all industrial countries simultaneously.
The more expensive oil is the origin
of today's crisis situation.
It will mean strains and interventions
in living conditions–
–and in the standard that we have accustomed
ourselves to and consider self-evident.
It becomes more expensive to drive a car
and rental costs rise.
Karl Johans gate
is the country's most trafficked street–
–but now we can stand here in the middle of the street
without any traffic.
Buses and taxis go in full swing,
but otherwise the driving ban seems to hold.
Prices on plastic skyrocket,
and the furniture industry begins to return–
05dc23ac-1be-4540-ba53-7c1c990c4b2c
–to more traditional materials
such as oak, rattan and pine.
It becomes trendy with natural,
earthy warm colors–
–and throughout the North
entire homes are furnished in brown.
With the 1970s also comes a new wave.
It is young families and children
who move out to the countryside–
–to live a freer and simpler
life in harmony with nature.
A Finnish glass artist who became
famous with the vase Kantarelli–
–had in the 1950s and 1960s
been at the forefront of Finnish design.
He is called Tapio Wirkkala
and is called "The king of the forest".
We have our roots in nature after all.
And from there comes well
the power that is here.
That power we try to use ourselves of.
For Tapio the family was very important.
He was always present
when we were together.
Tapio taught me much
about life, design and art.
He taught me to carve and handle
a knife when I was five years old.
It is often talked about that Tapio had
a very close relationship to nature–
–and that nature comes to expression
in his design, in the form of mussels–
–and streaming water
that he tried to get into his objects.
But geometry was equally important to him
as nature.
That was two things
that he worked very much with:
nature and geometry.
Tapio Wirkkala's international
breakthrough becomes the series Ultima Thule–
–inspired by Lapland's melting ice in spring.
He spent almost a thousand hours with the glassblowers–
–and at the glassworks there were problems
with air bubbles in the glass mass.
The form of Ultima Thule was a way
to create a unique structure–
–where the glass's irregularities were enhanced
instead of being hidden.
Here it is clear–
–that he tried to emphasize the ice.
What makes the Ultima Thule series
so exceptional is well–
–how well one has succeeded in designing
the Lapland ice into the objects.
"Ultima Thule" is Latin and refers to
the edge of the known world–
–a mythical place
that one believed existed in the North.
1969 begins Ultima Thule glasses
to be used in Finnair's first class–
–a symbol of Finnish design
that still spreads across the world today.
The 1970s is a family-friendly time
when children come into focus–
–which also affects design.
In Norway comes a chair
where children themselves can climb up.
And one evening it is broadcast
an item about it on Norwegian TV.
How did it come about that you interested
yourself in such furniture?
I thought that there was missing
furniture for children on the market.
At least of this kind.
A traditional small child chair
functions for children until they are 1.5 to 2 years.
But thereafter there is nothing so that
the children can sit with at the dining table.
Can you show how to adjust it?
Yes, you push in the seat plate so that...
The TV audience understood directly–
–and called NRK
and asked where they could buy the chair.
Then the furniture stores realized
that this was something they could capitalize on.
Then you push in the footrest so that...
High chairs for children had been
largely unchanged for 100 years.
But then came Tripp Trapp–
–and then one got a chair
that not only functioned for small children–
–but a chair that grew with the child.
The idea came thus from the designer
Peter Opsvik, Tor Opsvik's father.
He was a master on ergonomics and
had a special eye on the world–
–to find new,
unconventional solutions in everyday life.
And he got the idea at the dining table
when he saw his own son Tor.
When I approached two years old saw
he that there was no chair for children–
–that themselves wanted to sit in the chair
and not be lifted into a cage.
Tripp Trapp is an attempt
to solve that problem.
We also sit with the legs. That is what
makes us able to change posture.
If you sit on a table
and dangle your legs–
–you can try to change sitting position
but you end up in the same position.
To actively be able to use the legs
to change one's sitting position–
–is the basis for Tripp Trapp, and that
has spread to many chair models.
The special thing with Tripp Trapp is that
it lifts the children to the adults' level–
–levels the differences between them–
–and includes the children
in the community around the table.
It is a design that has held
for 50 years and not become outdated.
It changed
what a child chair could be.
Today the 1960s and 1970s are distant–
–but the era's iconic design
lives on.
And sometimes the 1960s colorful, positive dream
is called the future that never came.
The future that never came...
But that was their vision of the future.
Nowadays design, architecture
or fashion is quite boring–
–compared to what one then
thought it would become.
Perhaps because people were more optimistic then.
They looked forward to a future
where everything would become better.
But now people are more negative
and closed off.
Perhaps that has to do with it.
So it is probably.
When one sucked in and began to like
80s and 90s it was just – Memphis!
Now came maximum colors,
and I became so incredibly happy.
–Are your furniture beautiful or ugly?
–What do you think?
When people come into sparsely
furnished rooms–
–people almost always lower their voices.
Translation: B Bäckman, J Tegnborg, K Werge Hjerpe
Svensk Medietext för SVT
Subtitles: Jenny Tegnborg
Svensk Medietext för SVT